TODOS:
*move nomination form -> gamestatus page
*keep weights box open after checking/unchecking players
*add "previous vote" to gamestatus so edited votes don't result in "unknown"?
    > easy except the part where we have to change the database
*vote page on phone - can't open "personal issues" section?
    > it's not super important (bc why would you vote for those) except that WHY
*add last played (to vote page and/or game status)
*(Anything unlisted but in page documentation)

T for "time-weighted votes"
R for "ratings"
C for "cumulative votes"
M for "minimal change"

V for "+vetoes"

if R+V, would need to make various changes to be more like TCM
currently assuming we're using system C (since i brought it up in vc and no one objected... or expressed any opinion whatsoever...)

current tables:

-games-
id              int(10)
name            varchar(128)
emoji           text  -> varchar(5)
min_players     smallint(6)
max_players     smallint(6)
ownership       enum('all', 'one', 'free')
category        varchar(128)        Nullable
nominated_by    int(10)             Nullable


-players-
id              int(10)
name            varchar(128)
short_name      varchar(5)
password_hash   varchar(2056)


-game_status-
player_id       int(10)
game_id         int(10)
owned           tinyint(1)
status          enum('good', 'veto', 'tech')
last_voted_for  date                 Nullable
    special values:
    0: never
    1: unknown
current_vote    int(11)
historical_vote int(11)


Weekly maintenance:

TMV: flag all votes as invalid
R: adjust recency handicap by +1, if negative
T: increase all players' "sessions since game chosen" by 1 (if doing sessions, not picks)


Access pages:

(
legend:
✔️ done
🔧 working, but there's improvements to make
⌚ partially completed
)

✔️ login.php: username and password fields. leads to redirect page.

✔️ dologin.php: if correct password, grant cookie & send to homepage. if password wrong, boots to login with error. if new username and password 1234, sends to new player confirmation; if new username without pass 1234, returns to login with error.

🔧 newplayer.php: asks if you want to create a new player account. Cancel->return to login.php Enter password twice and confirm->creates account and logs in.

✔️ createplayer.php: creates player using POST data. redirects to login.php

✔️ index.html: redirect to homepage.php

✔️ message.php: simple page to display error messages for php processing pages. has only whatever links are passed in.

   all following pages redirect to login if not logged in:

✔️ homepage.php: redirects to newgamestatus if needed. big vote button if you haven't yet this week. if you have, big choose game button. smaller buttons for edit vote, game status, nominate game/edit game data
    (or should gamestatus and votepage redirect, instead?)

✔️ votepage.php: big table of games with vote checkmarks (V: and veto checkmarks). Javascript sortable by name, historical global votes, historical personal votes, (C: current votes); all in both directions. Starts with games voted for last week on top, with the rest sorted by historical personal followed by name. Games with status problems hidden to an openable section. checkmarks also javascript limited to the correct number (V: and not antonymical). also a column—maybe something more dramatic, like a red colored row—that shows if any player has a status issue with the game. if already voted this week, starts with votes checked. vote button at the bottom
(C: votes for games with 0 current votes are unchangeable; this should occur only when editing votes after game played.)

✔️ vote.php: if most recent vote more recent than last saturday, removes those votes; then adds new ones. Redirects to homepage with confirmation message.

🔧 newgamestatus.php: lists each game for which you have not established a status. If nomination, checkbox to second. Dropdown to choose status. (R: rating chooser.) At bottom, confirm button; submits all and returns to homepage (R: returns to game status instead).

✔️ creategamestatus.php: commits game status data sent to it to database, including seconding. No redirect needed.

✔️ gamechooser.php: Homepage button at top. all player names listed with checkboxes, starts with all those who've voted in the last six days checked. collapsed section shows all valid games and weights for checked players (as emoji with tooltips); games with issues show in red. Button to choose game: rolls random game and adds to bottom of page, along with buttons "reroll" and "accept". clicking a game's Emoji will also add it to the bottom in the same way, so you can manual override. (Recommend not pushing "accept" until finishing session, or at least starting proper, to avoid clearing votes if game called off before properly played.) both return to the choose game page after pushing.

✔️ playgame.php: sets current votes for current players for that game to 0.

🔧 gamestatus.php: at top, button that leads to (R: choose game; TCM: Homepage). (R: redirects to new game status if needed.) in collapsible section (default open), lists all confirmed games and statuses (R: and ratings) along with global game data. each game also has little edit button. list sortable by various attributes. (R: link to nominate game page) in collapsed section, also lists all nominated games and allows you to second them, if you were not the one to nominate. at bottom, confirm changes button, which leads back to same page.

second.php: specialized page that just seconds nominations.

✔️ editstatus.php: form similar to newgamestatus, but only for one game. also provides link to edit game *data* for that game.

✔️ savegamestatus.php: commits game status data sent to it to database. Redirects to gamestatus.

✔️ editgame.php: similar to nominate, but for an existing game. Starts filled. sends data for savegame.php

✔️ savegame.php: updates global game data in database. Redirects to gamestatus.

🔧 nominate.php: provides form for you to fill out with game data, and a confirm button, which sends to creategame.php. also a homepage button at top if you changed your mind (or misclicked)

✔️ creategame.php: commits global game data (including nominator) to database. Redirects to newgamestatus.


Game choosing algorithm:
Input is the players attending
In all cases, check basic conditions:
        * correct number of players
Special second category for possibly fixable issues?:
        * ownership conditions unfulfilled
        * technical difficulties
        * no refusal to play (R: 1* votes)
   if so, i think they should have the chances of appearing decreased, AND automatically pop up another choice. also say what the issue(s) is. Chances decreased by 75% for each player with issue? multiplicative (so with two, 6.25% of the base chance. round... down?) (games that only the host needs to own count as one issue if no one owns)
TCM: collect votes, ignoring any older than six days.
V: Eliminate vetoed games
          *unless every game gets vetoed in which case... ignore first vetoes?
after this it's all different

T:
give each game a weight:
       * for each vote, 2 + # since last choice
Reduce weights for games with issues (round naturally)
Cull 0s
           * if no non-zero games, add 1 to each weight
Cull to top three games, plus any number tied with third
Choose a game based on random weight.

R: should possibly consult with Corey, but as a blind stab:
calculate base weights:
          * for each player, rating -3; add all together
Multiply by 10, divide by #players
add in recency handicap (which should be negative or 0)
Reduce weights for games with issues
Cull any games with negative or 0 weight
          * if no games with positive weight, add 10 to all weights and try again
Choose a game based on random weight

C:
Pull current vote counts as weights
Reduce weights for games with issues
Cull 0s
Choose a game based on random weight

M:
Pull vote counts
Reduce weights for games with issues
Cull to highest number
Choose at random


accept choice algorithm:
T:
Set # since last choice to 0 for those that voted for this game
Invalidate votes for chosen game
Increase # since last choice by 1 for those present that didn't vote, if doing it by pick and not session

R:
Add -10 to recency handicap.

C:
Set current vote count to 0

M:
Invalidate votes for chosen game